## **Mistral Hackathon pre-hack meeting Europe edition \- 2026/02/26 02:06 JST \- Transcript**

# **Attendees**

Abdussalam Popoola, Abel Verley, Adil Aabideen, Adrien PELFRESNE, Agajan Torayev, Ahmed BENSAAD, Alexis Vapaille, Alireza Heidari, Angela Winter, Anthony Eid, Antonio Mele, Arnab Ghosh, Aykut akguen, Batuhan Ergun, Beary Nice, Benjamin Feldman, Bishwajeet Parhi, Bukunmi Aluko, Caleb Areeveso, Caspar Roelofs, Charles AZAM, Christos Tsoufis, Chrysoula Kosma, Chuan Li, Connor Adams, Cris from LifeSim, Daniel Sticker, Daniel Zarzecki, David Brochart, Devansh Karia, Diego Parra (Divait), EDOUARD FOUSSIER, Emma Grospellier, Erik Erwitt, Estéban, Esteban Foucher, Eugeniu Dimitriu, Fadi Al Eliwi, Fireflies.ai Notetaker Pranami, Florian Buetow, Francisco Terpolilli, Fred van Rijswijk, George Lopez, Godefroy Meynard, Guust Goossens, Hamza Zerouali, Henry Zhang, Hiresh Bremanand, hmarhoun, Horace Guy, Igor Lima Rocha Azevedo, Impulse Lab Recorder, Impulse-lab Notetaker, James Gibbins, Jerry Wu, Joakim Selemyr, Joffrey Thomas, Joosep Pata, Joseph Pollack, Ju Lin, Juan Alonso-Allende, julien roubaud, Justin, Khushiyant Chauhan, Kuldeep Singh Naga, Leonard Roussard, Levin Wilke, Louis BERTHIER, Lukas Noel, Mahdi Ranjbar, Marina Ordukhanyan, Mario Geiger, Martin jules, Mathis, Matlav, Matthieu, Maurice Banerjee Palmer, Max Maliuk, Michael, Michail Chatzianastasis, Mohamed Benfriha, Mustafa Hozefa Africawala, My team's AI Notetaker, Natalia Stones, Nelson Proia, Nolan Cacheux, Oliver's Notetaker, Olivier, Olivier Nguyen Quoc, Paul B, Pierre Adorni, Pierre Chaminade, Pranamika Pandey, read.ai meeting notes, Saad souilmi, Samir, Scott, Shatakshi Patil, Simon's AI Notetaker (tldv.io), Sruthi Kuriakose, Stefan, Stefan Ionescu, Théo Stoskopf, toms LM, Tristan Hucher, Victor Horneț, Wilfred, William Muskus, Xavier Jara, Yaroslav L, Yusuf Afifi, Yuvan Chikka, z, Zakaria Kerkeb, Ziv Ilan FR

# **Transcript**

Olivier: What's commend?

Joffrey Thomas: Thanks everyone for joining. my name is I'm a relation engineer from sorry just people that are not muted. yeah. All good. So I'm Joffrey, developer relation engineer at Musli. I'm the one organizing the hackathon. at the moment it's super late where I am because I'm actually taking place participating the hackathon in Tokyo. so for me it's 3:00 a.m. So if I look tired or say things that don't make sense.

Joffrey Thomas: Congratulation if It means that you're in the hackathon. it was super difficult. We got a lot of applicants and so It means that your application stood out against all the others people that applied. So inside this code, there's only the European competitors from Paris and London.

Joffrey Thomas: and I have the same kind of call with everyone else around the globe in physical location online I have a different one I'm just seeing trying to show okay good so we wanted to thank you for the enthusiasm it was overwhelming more than 5,000 applicants old CD considered online included with a whooping 1,700 in Paris alone. and our goal was to accept 100 people per location. And so that's what we've done. there's teams of one to four people allowed.

Joffrey Thomas: And just for you to know all invitation have been sent right now. So if you have teammates that are still pending you can consider them rejected. We haven't sent any rejection yet. we are just sending out approval. So we are sorry we know that might be a breaking for some of you not to be able to have all your teammates. but choices had to be made and considering the number of application it was not manually possible to review all the applications. So I had to rely on some scripts got my LinkedIn account banned multiple times because I got into so many LinkedIn profiles.

Joffrey Thomas: So for some reason you don't plan on attending, since we are at capacity, I would be super thankful if you could update your Luma status so we can offer your place to someone else. But thank you very much for participating. Glad to see the one that will stay with us on Saturday and see what you'll build. So the goal of this hackathon is basically to celebrate our latest open models. it doesn't mean that you cannot use other models. it's probably the one that you will be using the most. in that sense it's the street that you can see on screen that the minerals which have a 3D variant 8 variant and a 14B variant.

Joffrey Thomas: This is probably the one that you're going to use for small very targeted application fine tuning and those kind of things. If you want a routed model that you can use on an API this is most likely miss R3 that you're going to use both of them have been released in December and so we want to see what you as a community can build with those models. Additionally, we released an update to Vauxhall Small and to the Vauxhall family. the Vauxhall family has been released last year. but it just received an update.

Joffrey Thomas: I think it was a week or two weeks ago by having vaual real time being added to the family in adding some realtime capacity for speech to text. So you can only ins on what you can do. you are welcome to take all the models if you think it's a better choice but I would probably consider this model first in any case I want to thank all our sponsors so this hackathon is currently being operated by the iterate team so this is the one that you will see in all the locations but we are super happy to have all the other sponsors we will have Nvidia in Europe we will

### 00:05:00

Joffrey Thomas: AWS in Europe. We will have wait also in all your location. Microsoft will only be in LA. So you will not encounter them but you will encounter some of the sponsors throughout your hackathon journey and we hope that it's going to be a pleasant interaction. A little bit about the details for Paris. so you're expected to go at the RA office. It's situated at the bulvar. it's in the seventh aris of Paris. it's close to valid and the power. we already sponsored hackathon at this location in the past. It's a super cool venue. I'm sure you will love it.

Joffrey Thomas: And yeah basically this is where the funds is going for London this is happening in the Holin office one of not Hulkin office but one of the building it's at one Paris garden in London same thing expected here on Saturday morning and the goal basically of this meeting is so that you have all the information so that whenever you arrive on Saturday, you are pretty much ready to build and you can start building right away without having to suffer from two hour presentation of all the sponsors.

Joffrey Thomas: So we are doing it a little bit prior to the event so that you can even digest a little bit the content that we will present on timeline. this is the main points that you need to know. the door will be opening at 9:00 am. you will have a little bit of time to enjoy breakfast. and join a team if that's not already made online through Discord. and we will start the briefing at 10\.

Joffrey Thomas: As I said, it's going to be super short because I want you to have as much time coding as possible and the coding will go from 10 a bit later 11:00 a.m. from Saturday to 400 pm on the Sunday. you will have access to food. you can stay on site overnight. but I strongly recommend you for your own health to go back home if you have the a if you are advanced enough in a project So there's three tracks in Europe. one being on device sponsored by Nvidia.

Joffrey Thomas: So I will let them go into more details later on and present but it's about using their breath instances to build your project with a limited hardware and the lower you can go the better it is. and they also have a little bit of a supplies for builders that choose this track as an additional price. You can go with fine-tuning which is sponsored by weight and delis. meaning you can fine tune a model and achieve extraordinary results that will not be possible with zero shots. what we want to see is a project if you're relying on the base capacity of the mold is not something that would be achievable.

Joffrey Thomas: And finally the last one is basically anything goes. This is API sponsored by AWS. you can build whatever you want as long as it's using model of course. but basically using model on bedrock or deploying themselves yourself and build whatever you'd like. there will be a institution basically to go toward the harder track. because obviously if I let you ch ch ch ch ch ch ch choose right away, you will not want to be restricted with a certain track. so there'll be bonus points for people that can go very low on limited hardware and people that can do a very good fine tuning with weighted bases.

### 00:10:00

Joffrey Thomas: So yeah, those are the stars to represent the bonus points. additionally to those tracks, tracks are mandatory. We are expecting you to be in one of those tracks with a oneird kind of ratio. You can choose yourself in which track you want to be. but if we see that one track is more popular than the other, then we would probably redirect you to another one to give you some ideas and to make you want to complement the use of those technologies toward a more complete project. There's also some special prizes that are added meaning you can one that we award oursel for the best use of Mr.

Joffrey Thomas: We will give custom Apple AirPod and the planet is here to signify that it's present for all the dealers around the world. So this is one special price for all cities basically not only limited to Paris but this can be won in another location. There's the same thing for weight but they probably can say a little bit more about that. they are offering credits and the Mac Mini for the best self-improvement workflow. weight 11 Labs is having a special price about best of voice AI where you can gain six months of E1 lab scale tier which is super awesome to and hugging face is offering a custom rich minis for the one that best use the jobs and TL features.

Joffrey Thomas: All of them are offering some credit so that you can use their product without having to pay yourselves. so you can already see some compliment uses you can build an API track that use 11 labs with vauil as a speech to text and 11 labs as a tech to speech. You can fine-tune using Mr. VI vibe. You can tune using Cher from Hugging Face or you can tune using the jobs and there's already complimentary thing that you can do. On top of that, there's Supercell which is sponsoring a best video game use of AI.

Joffrey Thomas: it was close to me and I really wanted that kind of special prize because I think that video game demos usually make really cool ones. in the past I personally won a hackathon by the doing video game demos. last week or two weeks ago in the openi hackathon someone won do by doing a video game. the first ever missile win in a hackathon was also video game. I don't know some of you might be familiar with it but it was fine tuning missile 7B which at the time was not multimodel on aski character representation of doom to predict the next token which was the action to take in the game like a b up down and so on.

Joffrey Thomas: So they are offering a Game Boy Color custom branded like a Supercell trophy and also they will consider you for their Supercell AI innovation lab which is a program in which they can basically help you build a game for a couple months by having them go into their office and then at the end help you publish. There's basically for safety by white circle where they allow credits and support to be building for Parisian builders.

Joffrey Thomas: raise which is going to be the venue in which we will build in Paris is offering the best startup ID what should be next icorn the opportunity to pitch in front of VC partner and maybe join a founder club too and Giant is offering something similar plus 3K pounds to the London equivalent of that a special rize. All right. But those tracks and those special prize, they merge into a final top three. So regardless of whichever track you choose, you will be ending up on a podium with second place and first place.

### 00:15:00

Joffrey Thomas: And this is why the additional points in tracks matter to make the balance. so you can see that those price mentioned on the website are actually for each location. So there's going to be a third place in second place in London and first place in London and same for Paris. The only difference and why it's super important to end up first is only the first place in each city will be going to the final round. Basically, you can end up winning the Paris hackathon. it's already super competitive. as I mentioned, they were a thousand 1,700 applicants. You made it to the hackathon where we only have a 100 and then you end up winning.

Joffrey Thomas: But there's also the next challenge. So you are already winning a very good price. but then there's the next step about who will win the final trophy. So we will take the first place winner from every location and make them compete in the final format online where we will elect which of the local project is actually the best global project. So that final format will be composed of local winners plus the most project with the most public votes. so there's a system of likes on the platform that I will show on which we will extract the most number of likes by Friday, March 6 at 12 a.m. Paris time and that project will be sent to the finals.

Joffrey Thomas: And also since we want to also balance out with the different sponsors and the different tracks and also because we might just miss with so many projects like hidden gems you may end up second in Paris or you may third in London or even don't get any recognition locally but we will still take a look at all the project again and try to find the Eden gems and so that's why we reserve ourselves the right and to sponsors too to select up to three wild cards will directly go to the finals and those will be announced at the same time as the public vote readers. So they will have less time to prepare the final pitch but they will get the chance to be on the same chances to win the final prize as local winners.

Joffrey Thomas: So the finals are happening actually on the 9th of March on our YouTube channel. in the end of afternoon Paris time. The exact time is still yet to be communicated. this is only a remark for the Asian builders. but the Asian builders will be allowed to record their talk. especially because for Sydney it's going to be the middle of the night. so it's not super super convenient.

Joffrey Thomas: maybe a little bit about hackathon preparation. So, you're probably wishing to join a team. if you don't have one, you're probably wishing to know what you can do. The first step is just going on to the discord. Some of you probably already have the link. I will send it again after this presentation. So, if we go on there together You can see that if you follow the link that we send, you will end up on this page with your location.

Joffrey Thomas: You can just interact with the emoji that correspond to the city that you are participating into and you will get then access to those worldwide challenge that are global and then some challenge some channels that are only relevant to your city where you'll be able to enjoy yourself ask question to the local mentors, search team and so on and so on. The second thing that you may want to prepare so this is the al platform. I'm very quickly going to make a tour about it. this is a platform that is made by the team during the hosting the hackathon.

Joffrey Thomas: So this is I haven't sent any link yet, but whenever I send you the link for your city, you will be able to directly register to the hackathon in the city. And this is where you'll see things like the judge and mentor for your city. You'll see a gallery of projects. you'll be able to sort by most likes. We will upload any picture that we take on site so that you can have a memory about it. And most importantly, you can have access to some resources. This is where we put coupons. For instance, you can claim a missile coupon to get $15 of API credits however For instance, you may want to use missile real time. I can give you more information about how to read that coupon, but there's more steps involved. You can create your team, you can create your submission, and so on.

### 00:20:00

Joffrey Thomas: And this is where it's going to be important maybe very quickly before I hand over to other sponsors. But this is one of their last hackathon. So this is what it would look like when it's filled in. So you would have thumbs ups. You will be able to see details like GitHub potential video that you filled and so on. So this is the platform that you will build on. Finally, the last step that you will need to do the setup is join the hugging face organization. This is going to be especially good for the one of out of you that wants to do finetuning by joining this organization.

Joffrey Thomas: So we have updated the visuals since then but we will require you to join this organization before Friday evening. The exact time is not set yet but it's in order for us and for team to actually credit you some credits when you're on this or so that you can run some jobs without paying yourselves. so it's going to be super great if you want to finetune. and also for the people that are going to take part in the finetuning track we will require all the model that you end up creating to be open on this organization so that we have reproducible results.

Joffrey Thomas: Finally, last slide on my hand and then I can hand over to others to present how to do well in a hackathon. a few ins on my side. scope the project correctly from the start. Don't hesitate to cut down some feature if needed. this is a little bit harsh maybe, but don't try to be too technically impressive. This is not usually the project that end up winning. This is not an interview. It's more about creating a project that if you ever come across that project on social media, you'll be like, "Wow, this is really cool." And that doesn't have to be technically impressive and have to spend 10 minutes to understand what it's about to impress people and make a hack. I don't know. Usually, it's the simpler ID that make it work.

Joffrey Thomas: And so is one of the hint why I think making a game works because it's simple. Everybody understand what it's about. But there's many other application that you can think about that this category that are not necessarily technically impressive but just very convenient or very impressive because they are useful. And the last very important point, don't forget to have fun. I know this is a competition in which you can gain some cash but this is always treated as a learning experience in any case exchange with others and all hack together. All right.

Joffrey Thomas: I can maybe hand over to either Zeve or Olivier if you're…

Ziv Ilan FR: Sure, I'm ready.

Joffrey Thomas: if one of you is ready.

Ziv Ilan FR: Yeah, happy to do it now.

Joffrey Thomas: Okay, cool.

Ziv Ilan FR: One second and let me share Do you see my screen? Cool. So,…

Francisco Terpolilli: Yeah.

Ziv Ilan FR: nice to meet you all. I'm part of our AI labs team from Nvidia engaging with different Frontier Labs based out of Paris and I work very closely with Mistral and Jeffrey and happy to support as sponsors for this hackathon. We sponsor both the London and Paris and New York locations. which means you'll have the opportunity to meet some of our local folks and interact with them and also we'll be happy to support you with your ideas.

### 00:25:00

Ziv Ilan FR: just to give you some background on what it means that we sponsor and what the track is about following what Joffrey mentioning before we try to define the track as something that's the best team to develop locally with under $100 of compute to make your life a little bit more challenging. What it means is that each of the teams that will participate in this track will get access to our Brave platform which I'll demonstrate in a moment will get a coupon of $100 to redeem when you start the hackathon. And then you need to track of course the consumption and leave some budget for the demonstration at the end of Sunday.

Ziv Ilan FR: So this will be of course countered into the grading that we'll do for your project. The best team will win an RTX5090 and we'll send it of course directly to your place. We won't have it on site but we'll discuss after the competition with the relevant team and we'll take the address and we'll share it with the team. Apart from that in all locations you'll have access to our billandvideo.com platform and website whatever you'll call it we have hosted endpoints of mistrol3 ministral 14 b and destro there's also access to blueprints again I'll show it in a minute so it will be easier for you to understand to give you some inspiration for different use cases and of course documentation and additional resources

Ziv Ilan FR: in the locations I mentioned we'll have between three to four mentors on site. They are solution architects. They work with different developers, customers, ecosystem globally. So they have a lot of knowledge in not just on GPUs but beyond. Nvidia is a full stack company. We have a lot of software engineers and a lot of work around agentic solutions. And at least the beginning of the hackathon, the idea will be to help you brainstorm or kind of focus your idea in something that can be achieved in a matter of 30 hours or is the time frame of the hackathon. So, don't be shy to ask them questions even if it's not on top of our brev platform.

Ziv Ilan FR: will be walking around you and ask you questions maybe to again trigger and see how we can help you to get to a better solution on Sunday at 400 p.m. We will be there during the day. So, I think around 8:00 p.m. on Saturday, we'll just leave your phone number or some contact information in case you have any late night questions and we'll arrive back on Sunday morning to be a available there until the judging again, the topic suggests are wide. So, I don't want to okay this is only for GPUs but it can be end to end questions.

Ziv Ilan FR: Before I go to the next slide, I'm sharing this one. Right. So, envida.com. It's an open platform. You can create your user and there are a few resources here that can be relevant for your development. One is what I mentioned about hosted endpoints.

Ziv Ilan FR: Once you click on models and filter by mistral okay you have all of these endpoints available and if you click on one of them you can have some interaction using the UI but of course also with API or different codes okay you'll just need an API key that you can get once you log in and create your user what I mentioned about brev is once you again qualified for this track, we want to make sure that your ID is actually relevant to run locally, you will get this $100 coupon for your team captain. And within brev, you can spin up GPUs. you see exactly the cost for each GPU, per hour.

### 00:30:00

Ziv Ilan FR: with your $100 budget, we try again to challenge you to work on the smaller models and also something that can be interesting to see within a time frame of one and a half days. So again, you'll have the flexibility to choose whatever instance once you spin it up and we'll share of course also the instructions on Saturday morning. Once you decide on the instance you can spin it up and share access to this resource between all of the team members, through a Jupyter notebook, okay, so you'll have full access to the GPU to do whatever you want. download the checkpoints, fine-tune, create our agentic platform use your imagination. Okay, apart from that what I mentioned about blueprints are imagine you have the models and then on top you have the application layer.

Ziv Ilan FR: It's kind of an inspirational use cases you can start and looking at. And there are some computer vision applications here around maybe a visual inspection. There's customer support. There's a lot of use cases here. I won't go through all of them. The idea is that you can, get some inspiration. and plug in the mal models, plug in your ideas and push hard to get a good project ready on time. Okay, so that's on the blueprint section and again you don't need to remember everything. We'll be there Saturday morning to guide you through the process.

Ziv Ilan FR: One couple of last points and happy to answer any questions if you have but one second before we get there just to okay so just to talk about a couple of resources you can also consume and plug in visal models and other sponsor products to make interesting projects beyond Mistral models there's also some other models that Mistral just don't have. So okay we don't want to compete with Mistral have amazing products amazing models. H I'll give an example. There's a full duplex audio model that we recently released and got very nice traction in hugging phase called Personopoplex.

Ziv Ilan FR: If you use that, plug it into Mistful Large 3, you can create a really interesting voice chat application. all of these resources I mentioned are available in the Nenvidia platform. with every model we release, we also have the data set. So, you can Joffrey mentioned about the fine-tuning section. And you can actually take the data sets and the recipes we released and fine-tune Mistral model, instead of you now collecting data somewhere, there's a lot of different type of data sets that you can use.

Ziv Ilan FR: They're all open source they're all available in hugging phase. you can download and start fine-tuning on top of weights and biases and any other fine tuning platform. it will be really interesting to see what you come out with. The last part is what we call limo agent toolkit. Again if you are working on aentic applications and you want to have something that again not develop everything from scratch you can take mistral models. Nemo agent toolkit is a GitHub project that you can go right now and study about it. And the idea is again you don't have a lot of time try to accelerate your development. You plug in mal models you can develop the agents around it.

Ziv Ilan FR: And it has some nice features that can help you get to a more stable solution. that will be, a demoable demonstrable before Sunday 4 p.m. There's some links here. I can share the slides. Jeffrey, I'm not sure if we have any way to share contact with the folks here in the call, but we can share the slides and…

Ziv Ilan FR: prepare questions.

Joffrey Thomas: Yeah, I will send content afterwards in a mail.

Ziv Ilan FR: Cool.

Joffrey Thomas: So if you want to send it to me, I can forward

Ziv Ilan FR: I will. No problem. so again, if you have any questions, Again, if we talk about our track, think about ideas that can be deployed to a smaller GPU and there's value in running them locally, It can be privacy oriented safety. Jeffrey mentioned a track about safety. so again you have two and a half days until Saturday morning. Not everything is interesting to run local So this is the edge we're looking for in the way that we'll create the projects. and always again happy on Saturday morning to kind of brainstorm with you. But think about this again from ideas that can be relevant maybe only on premise deployment for different reasons, right?

### 00:35:00

Ziv Ilan FR: security, privacy, etc. performance, low latency, and all of that. That's it for me. Happy to stay here for a few more minutes if there are any questions.

Joffrey Thomas: Thanks so much. I have a Q\&A at the end so I think I can recover if there's any need. No worries. Yeah. Will the send recording be up soon? Yes. we launched the recording so we'll send everything afterwards. do you want to go next or do we have someone from wait maybe before ready?

Olivier: I can go next.

Joffrey Thomas: Yes. No,…

Olivier: All Okay. What do you see? Do you see my screen?

Francisco Terpolilli: No, no.

Joffrey Thomas: not yet.

Olivier: Okay. Don't worry.

Francisco Terpolilli: Yes. Yeah. Thank you.

Olivier: I might show my screen And if I change my screen. Everything is broken. Okay, you should give me one second. Mac OS changing the orders. Thank you everyone for being here. I'm Olivia.

Olivier: I work for AWS as a developer advocate and I'm going to use this time to tell you what we do and how you can use our products during the hackathon in the API track. So there's different products on the list to do geni and AI in general. the one that we're going to talk about is called So Amazon bedrock is basically like a platform for building genai application and agent at production scale that's the marketing tagline on it. but basically what it does it allows you to do a lot of things to you have access to different models from different providers. You can do evaluations you can do some fine tuning even though you have a track for that. So use it. you can work with knowledge base we have some quadras if you want to do some things around protections and governance and these kind of things.

Olivier: And we also have a new product called agent core that is here to help you host your agent and your MCP servers in an easy way on AWS. And so I mentioned it has a lot of different models and providers. But today we're here to work mist and on AWS in a serless way mean which means with just an API call you have access to a lot of the Mistral AI models. So this is the list of the 13 I think they can access just with an API call. So pretty straightforward and if you want there's alo also some other models via the marketplace that require a little bit more work but that can also easily be just with one click deployed on adless Amazon bedrock. So you can use all of these 13 plus 6 19 models during the weekend.

Olivier: we will be providing $100 credits per person. So if you're a team of three, that means you have three credits I think TBD this weekend, but we can talk more about this on Saturday so all when we talk about agents there's a lot of things like tools, agent to agent, a lot of protocols and so I want you to introduce threads agents which is an SDK we open sourced last year which is open source in Python. So it works with any provider too but the idea to use it with bedrock during the weekend which is going to help you create all these agents and interact with the LLMs other agents MCP servers creating tools so let's see I'm going to try to do a demo so you can see roughly what we can do with the Amazon bedrock and also with a stren agent.

### 00:40:00

Olivier: So when you're going to connect to AWS with your credit or if you have an account this is what you see and so if you go to the bedrock service that's where you can see everything you can do. So you have the model catalog you have a chat playground even if you like to play with mist okay I want to play with three and you can chat you can test things before you go in your code. So the temperature the top P if guad rails the output length system promps you even compare with other mistral models because as I mentioned there's 13 available so you can compare them directly in the console that's pretty handy a lot of things you can do here we mentioned knowledge base these is all the things you can do directly here in Amazon bedrock but we're going to code what is interesting is the API key

Olivier: So the first thing we'll have to do is to create an API key. So there's either short-term which is 12 hours if you want to renew it or long-term API key. So if I create an API key for 5 days, let's say once you have this API key that's going to allow you to call the LLM directly from your code. So if I go here, I have a little tiny project with just a few lines of code. And I'm going to put the API key I just created in a environment variable which is an in file here. And so this is how strain works. So you just have to import the agent class create an agent and call it. So now here this is where you're going to put the model.

Olivier: And if you go to bedrock in the model catalog here, go into the serverless one, you have the mistral layer here. So these are all the models you have access to. So let's say I want the last three models. What you need is this ID here. So I'm just going to copy it and paste it here. Just by doing that, I can just call my minm. So this is rep. So this is if you don't trust me I can even print Whoops. and so you can see that by this is using mistral large three model and this is just calling the DM on Amazon background which is the API key. Now there's a lot of things you can do.

Olivier: So strange agent is here to simplify your life when it comes to I don't know have you tried to ask what time is it to a model the basic stuff when you ask and say I don't know because I don't have access to the current time. just so with strange can it's easy to add tools or even create tools. let me show you just for example if I go to the user guide that's the strange agent documentation. you can see here you have all the documentation you have the model providers. This is the bedrock one. you can also change the temperature the top p all the parameters from your LLM. If you have a Mistral API key, you can even create a MR model and use it in your agent or you can use bedrock because you have credit. but if you go in tools, you have a bunch of tools that come from what we call a community package. so you just have to install it and then there's a lot of things you can do out of the box.

Olivier: You can do writing file, execute some code, making some HTTP request, controlling your browser, you can read generate image. this a current time which is kind of the one I could use now if I just import it trends import time and just by doing that I'm going to add some capabilities to my agent.

Olivier: So I'm just giving him a list of the tools you can use and I execute it and you can see oo what did I do wrong here commiss and now it's going to say okay I access to a tool I can retrieve the time so this is the kind of things that just with the tools you have access here you can already do a lot of things you can use other agent you can just sleep even call ed services things now you can also create your own agents if I ask him for example Monica what is my name? If I ask that an agent, he doesn't know the answer because he doesn't know who I am. and there's no tool that can actually tell who I am.

Olivier: But who am I is you can actually easily create a function and just a function that just going to return something and this can be anything like you can call an API this can just call a database anything and just create a function you can just transform it and make it becoming a tool and to do that you just need to very simply add a decorator to your function and by just doing that if I ask y it's going to call the ym tool and just reply it's Olivia.

### 00:45:00

Olivier: So there's a lot of things you can do with trends. You can even call MCP agent for example. It's like if you have an MCP agent running somewhere else you want to use I don't know the GitHub or there's millions of MCP servers on the web that you can call directly. you can just go see the documentation. It's very easy. Three lines of code and you can call an MC One line of code and you can call another agent if you have multiple agents. If you go to the documentation there's a lot of things you do. You can do some multi- aent out of the box. It's just literally one of code to connect to another agent. You can do some graph agent. We say I have different agents and I want to say okay I have only ages between this agent and this agent. You can do swarm agents. You can do workflow agents. You want them to be executing a workflow guad rails here.

Olivier: Some things we can also talk about on Saturday you can do if you go to the agent the structure output when you want your output to not be a long text but an object that you can use in a web interface mobile app or anything. So these are all the things you can do with strand and way more. You may see there's a Python and TypeScript API. The TypeScript has been launched in December. So it's not as complete in features as the Python one.

Olivier: So, I would recommend using the Python one this weekend, but plenty of things you can do here. And I'll let you go and check the documentation. on Saturday evening, if you want to know more, we're going to have at 6 p.m. London 700 p.m. Paris a live demo on how to build a role playing game master with multiple agents, MCP server, so you can see the full extent of what str agents can do. So if you start building with it and you have questions, we'll be there anyway, but you're welcome to come to the live coding session and same as invidia, we're going to be there. it's very in easy to install, but you can see that in quick start on the website. we'll be there in So in Paris, we'll have a team of five people There's always going to be with at least three people. there mostly solution architect or engineers.

Olivier: So they can answer question on bedrock on strength agents but also anything on AWS and I saw someone asked a question yes the credits give you access to most of the products on AWS so storage compute everything and in London we have way more in London but there's going to be a lot of people to help you also answer your questions and guide you in London on AWS. So, thank you very much. Have fun. It's a weekend. We're going to work. So, I hope you have fun and mostly good luck. And that was it for me.

Joffrey Thomas: Thanks, finally, do we have tonight here with us? Let me check. Right. Doesn't seem so if you can unshare your screen. Yeah, I can share on All As for the third track from weight and basis, so basically the requirement have been said already but what they want is for you to use their models.

Joffrey Thomas: So they have this basis model and weight and basis weave. I have a small video to show this to you. I will probably need to reshare on the screen. and as announced they have also a special track to take only for the best improvement with me.

Joffrey Thomas: Sorry, taking some time. Okay, can you see me? good.

### 00:50:00

Francisco Terpolilli: Yeah. Yeah.

Joffrey Thomas: 

Joffrey Thomas: Thanks for Hello everyone. My name is Nico. I'm from the Weights and Biases team and welcome to the worldwide hackathon. we're at Weights and Biases are supporting this grand hackathon of Mistral. that spans a lot of cities. We have teams on the ground in Paris, London, New York, and San Francisco as well as Tokyo and are happy to support online for the other cities. we're one of the sponsors of the prizes. We have our own special awards as well that I'll introduce in a second.

Joffrey Thomas: And we have a specific track that we're sponsoring. So, this is the website that you should have seen already. I'm quickly going to walk you through our resources here. And of course, if there's any kind of specific questions, feel free to reach out. and we'll be on site to help you, too. So, let's get started by having a look quickly at this notion page that introduces our track and some key resources for you to cool. So, we are part of the hackathon and we'll be hosting the fine-tuning track. So there's multiple tracks. One of them is fine-tuning. and so the main point is for technically strong teams especially. the idea is to take any of Mistral's models, Ministral or other models, Voxil, and try to fine-tune them in whatever way you want to. there's of course a lot of different tools that you probably know already on Sllo or Transformers or even Mr. Al's own fine-tuning APIs that work quite well.

Joffrey Thomas: We have our own training out of the box that we're currently trying to develop as well that allows you to do gRPO and SFT out of the box. So these are managed services that you can You can use any managed service that you want to fine-tune even other kind of automated fine-tuning services. The main point is that you use weights and biases models to track your experiments and to systematically track loss and performance and evaluate and then improve your model on that. But we believe that still in today's world finetuning can be pretty interesting especially for distillation or for specialization of models onto specific tasks. especially interesting to see maybe some SFT depending on the use case you're looking at maybe some multimodality. So we're first going to be looking at generally the technical quality and innovation of your finetuning that you went into.

Joffrey Thomas: I'm going to show you a couple of examples here, but this is mainly about the workflow, data preparation, model selection, what emails did you do, how did you optimize and then of course how do you use models and weave for that. models is the platform for training models. and weave is the one that you use to build an agent and trace and evaluate. So typically we expect people to probably do both like you fine-tune a model and you use it to build an agent around it. so we definitely give points for this end to end journey who used best training and evalu models and then tracing and evaluations on weave. so there's a bunch of points for that. and then there's a bunch of other kind of criteria that you can have a look at as well as report at the end.

Joffrey Thomas: What I have to say what's important is that we want to see runs tracked as well as the lower adapters or any kind of fine-tuned artifact saved as a weights analysis artifact and locked to hoging phase so that we can evaluate and validate that you actually trained this and it's basically inspect in more detail what you did and of course what's really helpful for us is to have a report in weights and biases that allows you to share your training what you did and so Cool. yeah, generally speaking, we do encourage everyone to use weights and biases, weave and models for the other tracks, especially for the mystical agents track. We have audio evals and monitors that I can show you in a second that are really easy to use and could be quite cool to just showcase for example how are you using Voxrol in your agent or different other kind of audio or image traces that you can directly evaluate online with weave.

Joffrey Thomas: And so both for the Nvidia as well as the mist track this could be definitely something we encourage as well. we have a mini challenge and that mini challenge gives you $500 of crew with inference credits and a Mac mini which could be kind of cool for cloudbot times. that goes to the person in the team that does the best self-improving workflow. So we've been seeing a lot of experiments with using coding agents, mistress vibe or claude code or any kind of other coding agent to access weights and biases automatically through the MCP and skills take out the experiments and then optimize the problem to fine-tune the model and then automatically evaluate and optimize using the MCP and skills. this is something that works already. So you can install that and try it out.

Joffrey Thomas: I would definitely recommend in general to try it out because it helps you a lot to get started and to iterate on your experiments. And this is for the team that has the most impressive hill climb over metric automated with just the MCP or automated eval that you added or optimization. So what we're kind of wanting to see here is a metric increase that happened automatically. a video walkthrough where you show that potentially or if you want to just describe what you did and then ideally generate if you use any kind of skill to submit that as well as part of this mini challenge. Cool. there's a bunch of quick start guides I added in here. again I think MCP server is a great way to start. You can ask it hey can you please add traces check if you trace correctly runs and vice versa. There's also a bunch of just quick starts on weave and models.

### 00:55:00

Joffrey Thomas: We do have some integrations with Mistral. So right if you use the Mistrel client it automatically traces. If you use any kind of runs you can simply just init and lock anything you want to. We have a bunch of integrations with typical runtimes trainers and so on including hanging face and all the standard ones. so feel free to check out these docs here. and otherwise just shoot us a message. so this is probably more for you to review. As I said, we are a couple of people on the ground here in San Francisco. It's Alex, Anu, and there's the Janine in London, Sarah and Salom in Paris, Anishnuma in New York, city and Kayua in Tokyo. Feel free to reach out to these people online or in person. We're happy to talk to you. And otherwise, let me quickly show you before we wrap this up, some examples here. So, there's a docs of course that you can have a look at.

Joffrey Thomas: So you basically click on this cursor button here if you want to or any of the others and then it will add it automatically. There's a bit more detail here of how you do it. But basically you just add a specific configuration to your setup and usually it's just like a single line of code or terminal that you just execute and then it automatically adds it in and then from there on you have installed the MCP and then from there you can use skills that use the MCP to do certain workflows. We ship a bunch of standard skills, but feel free to, have your claw coding agents go wild and create the skills that you think might work best with what you're trying to do. Another thing I just quickly wanted to show you is what do we mean by good and to weights and biases usage, right? There's a couple of points that you can do here. This is just one example what we did is, if we have a look at this is a specific hiring agent project. and if we have a look at the found report here, this is like a hiring agent that basically has three models in here.

Joffrey Thomas: an extraction model, a comparison model, and a guardrail. and it takes in a PDF of a resume, a job position, gives you a classification with a reason of whether to invite the person to an interview or not. and then in here I see, a bunch of the different steps that happen in this workflow. So, I can see the data set generation. I think my Wi-Fi is not great here, which logs in the specific data that was used in here. the quality scores, maybe, some more detail. This is the cover letter that was used for example in this data set. and then from here on there's a bunch of things that You can add the fine-tuning training loss learning rate gradients if that's important. If you did some kind of hyperparameter optimization you can show the different optimizations you did here. this is the importance of different parameters of maybe different configurations of the adapter you used So this is a nice way of sharing results at the end.

Joffrey Thomas: and then this is based on both models and weave right so in here for example we see that we have a training view and evaluation view they look something like if you go to the workspace something like the key things I want to see for training inside of my artifacts in here I see my training data set stored in whatever way you want to store it JSONL or the model in this case as we said saved as an artifact and to hugging face which is usually already integ If you use something like hugging face transformers, it should already be reporting to weights and biases as an integration there. and then the same thing for weave you see in this case we trained this model and then we use it in this agent together with other models.

Joffrey Thomas: and if we look at the hiring agent the main prediction you can kind of see in this case multimodel already that you have another PDF as the position and a specific version of the hiring agent and then as an output whether it hallucinated whether to invite the person to the interview or not and the reason right and then if you click on it you can see in more detail how the trace looks like and what specific steps did the job offer extracted the application compared it added the guart rail and then you expert review in case it's needed. And so these are of course things that we like to see because it really shows that you understand your system. You looked at it in detail and then iterated based on that.

Joffrey Thomas: And then finally you showed maybe something like an actual evaluation here where you have different versions of your agent that you compare on some specific metrics in this case I have a model that is my base model here and then I have a base agent and then I have one that is still prompt engineered but also fine-tunes for example the base model in this case and then in this case you can describe how for example you might have increased

### 01:00:00

Joffrey Thomas: increased in this case the reason pass rate a lot so in this case for example the reason given by the hiring agent was very different right so in this case you can see we only had 2% pass rate so the reason given was pretty bad by the base model with no prompt engineering but then much better in the prompt engineered one and even much better in the fine tune and prompt engineered one and you could even go and actually look at an example here to give you an understanding of a great result this is one example

Joffrey Thomas: example where you see okay this is a specific kind of input text position and application letter and then here you see that there's these three different hiring agents one said to invite the person two said not to invite it and then the clear difference you can actually see in this analysis right so this is the biggest the fine-tuned and prompt engineered one has a nice position fit analysis experience analysis values alignment and a conclusion and then the not so nice ones are much this is only the fine tune one it's better Okay, it's okay. It's just a paragraph and then the base model is really very short reason, And so first of all, you can see that the actual classification changed here, but you can of course very easily see the impact of fine tuning here. So this is a great project just to demonstrate the usage of models and weave together as well as the impact of your fine-tuning.

Joffrey Thomas: Another thing if you want to do something like reinforcement learning something that I can suggest you to do is while training what you can do is you can log your rewards that you're optimizing for and at the same time you can log in weave as part of an ongoing run the actual rollouts. So here you can see for example if the rewards getting better over time you can check specific rollouts here and see how they might improve. So in this case you can actually see the input outputs and specific traces here and qualitatively show people of my reward improved in this way but it can actually also see it in the rollouts that the quality qualitatively is much better. So these are just some good examples of how to effectively use models and weave to do fine-tuning.

Joffrey Thomas: If you have any questions, it's a lot of information right now. These are public projects. we can share them and just ask us for any questions. We were happy to help you do that. and with that, I think that's kind of the final point. feel free to reach out. You can also use Lush in case you're using that with our MCP. ask questions about how many traces are in your project or how many errors you found in the rollouts. in this case what I did is I just take the specific team and project here and I paste it into the search bar here and that gives me that at the end. it gives the MCP the possibility to match it to a project search the data and give you a response. Cool. I think that's a quick overview of our challenge and some examples and how you get started. Let us know if you have any questions to reach out and…

Joffrey Thomas: So basically as you understood the three tracks it's here to highlight the different kind of usages that you can do with open models.

Joffrey Thomas: we're super happy to be supporting this hacking. Cool. See you around. Bye.

Joffrey Thomas: One is here to encourage you to fine-tune your model. But basically when you have open models what you want to do is either fit them in a specific device that is compute bounded. second you may want to fine tune it and third you may want to use them in an unrest manner. We have small models. So those are very small models like minol 3B will be more targeted toward the NVIDIA challenge.

Joffrey Thomas: If you want to fine-tune, it's going to be the same. you're most likely going to look for the minis or the vauels just because the quantity of data that you need to find tune bigger models is going to be too much and even the compute that you would need is too much for weekend and for hackathon. So I encourage you to go either for vauol do the minus source and with AWS what you can do is pretty much anything as long as you are using there's restrictions all good maybe I can keep going on.

Joffrey Thomas: So about the special change too now that you understand a little bit more about tracks we have a vi special challenge so it's for the best use of vibe if you understood the previous talks there's already a lot of synergy that you can

### 01:05:00

Joffrey Thomas: have because in our vibe CLI which is available which is use def agent console as a coding model and conral as an em model you can already add some MCPS for instance the great NPS MCP you can add skills like the hugging face skills that we'll talk about later and so we try to make as many synergy as possible between the offerings and the special prices versus the tracks. I encourage you to go read not the documentation, but the public page about survive. It would probably answer most of your questions.

Joffrey Thomas: it's available for you. So you can use it as a vibe coding assistant to see if you use B vibe. Basically it's the same as other agentic authoring platform it will appear as a quarter in PRs. So we can judge whether you used it heavily lightly So this will be the main decision on our side. a little bit from hanging face.

Joffrey Thomas: So I just mentioned previously that they have made the NOR organization available. I will share you the link to that organization in the mail along with the recording and so But if you join that organization on ranking phase before Friday evening you will get assigned $20 to use on jobs. For instance, you can fine-tune jobs if you need your computer is not good enough to fine-tune minol 8B. it can fine 3D but not 8B then you can rely on jobs to have all the GPUs where you can find those a little bit bigger models.

Joffrey Thomas: There's a little bit of a note to say that to have this credit card you need an account but that won't be charged since you have credits. in any case it's the same for us. and if you have questions feedback they will be in the read me and discussions to answer any question. some of the hugging face folks might be present in some location and so you might see some of them as judges I don't know time wise how we have a presentation but I will have to share the audio again of that specific tab.

Joffrey Thomas: 

Joffrey Thomas: Yeah, I would have liked if they could bring rich mini for everyone to All right. So here in this presentation Ben from HF is going to basically present how you can use code and fine tuning models. Again, this is another synergy that you can basically these tools allow you to also fine tune models if you want with jobs. so it's going to be a basic introduction. This is something you can do with other CLI or you can do as introduced with survive if you want. Hi, I'm Ben from Hugging Face and the talk I'm going to give you today is called agents…

Joffrey Thomas: building agents and…

Joffrey Thomas: it's about how we're bringing agents to the hub to democratize the hardest problems in AI. It's about agent skills and how you can use those with coding agents to train machine learning models to write CUDA kernels and other kernels and to deploy models and push models to the hugging face In short, the TLDDR of this is that we get an agent to do a hard task. We extract or generate a skill from it and then we take that skill and give it to another agent be that a cheaper one or an open source one or an agent running locally. We've noticed recently that everyone is using coding agents be that openai's codeex or mistral vibes.

### 01:10:00

Joffrey Thomas: They've had a watershed moment in the last six months or so where respected engineers have said actually these are serious tools that people can and should use daily to perform hard problems and to work on hard engineering problems. At the same time, Anthropic have changed how alternative harnesses to clawed code are able to use their API. So they said that harnesses open code can't use the clawed I. In many ways that's actually supercharged the community and we've seen even more open harnesses and kind of cross-pollination of tools because of that decision which is really cool for us generally. We've learned that open code and mistral vibe are actually excellent coding agents that everyone should go out and try. So what are skills in my opinion?

Joffrey Thomas: The easiest way to understand an agent skill is to say that it takes a zeros task and turns it into a few shot task. I.e., it gives an agent examples of how to perform a specific task, which is something that we've constantly been doing. and it really just formalizes and structures that another way of saying it is that it is a filebased context. It's a directory containing context. rather than giving the context to the model through a kind of input window and then expecting it to retrieve more information from the repo, it's now given that in a structured directory.

Joffrey Thomas: The agent can discover the skill based on its So let's say the name and description is the hugging face CLI skill. If you instruct the model to use the hugging face CLI, let's say push this model to hugging face, it will take that description and use that because it's relevant to its instruction. It will w it can choose not to activate the skill if the instruction isn't relevant and therefore save context. And it can also execute elements of the skill for example Python scripts scripts in any coding language as well as snippets within its existing code interpreter. The obvious comparison with skills is agents M What's the difference between skills and agents MD?

Joffrey Thomas: And in simple terms, the difference is that the agent chooses to use a certain skill based on the instruction and agents.md are always used within the given project. Because of those differences, there are different ways that we should use skills and agents.md. So I've made this slightly opinionated table of how I'd recommend using the two. So the first example would be rules. Let's say you've got a rule always use types. If you were to put that in a skill, the agent would have to elect to use it and activate it when the skill was relevant to the given instruction that it was working on. And that might not be ideal if you wanted to follow this rule for everything it does on the project. And so putting that rule in the agents would be the best way to go.

Joffrey Thomas: Let's say you've got quite a complex process and you want to give examples. We have a project like this at the moment called community evals on the hub where we extract evaluation scores from readmes and papers and we put them in leaderboards on benchmark data sets. This involves a number of long processes that we use agents for. And this is an ideal application of skills because we can give examples and detailed instructions about each part of the process and the agent will use those skills based on the part of the process that it's working on. If we were to put this in an agent MD, it would be feasible, but it would be very verbose. And some of our benchmarking that I'll get to later has shown that actually it doesn't access all of that context at the right point in time.

Joffrey Thomas: So you can focus parts of the process on certain parts with relevant skills. Similarly with best practices you can do the same. You can give best practices for certain skills that the agent needs to do. That said you can also do that within agents.mmd but they should probably be projectwide best Performance is one of the main advantages of skills. As I said, you're taking a zeroot task and you're making it fot and we know that improves in performance. So you're giving examples of how to solve a problem and you'll increase performance. Once again, that would probably be too verbose for agents to Reducing tokens is another great use of skills because you're going to give the agent examples of how to solve the problem and so it will reduce retries which will reduce token consumption.

### 01:15:00

Joffrey Thomas: Okay, so I'm going to give you now three examples of different use cases for skills that we've implemented, benchmarked and published blog posts and tools on. The first one is the most straightforward and that's integration of a skill into the hugging face CLI. These are as I said quite straightforward skills that we've added as files into the CLI so that you can do HF skills add claude or HF skills add codecs and those skill files will be writed into the working directory or into your home directory based on what you choose.

Joffrey Thomas: These add dense versions of documentation with the latest changes and also some techniques and best practices to kind of optimize how your agent uses a CLI. They're also based a lot on experience of some of the errors that we've seen agents making consistently and so I definitely recommend using these whenever they're available in the CLI. We've already added them to RL kernels. The next usage of skills that I want to share with you is on training LMS. In short, you can prompt a agent with something like fine-tune this model on this data set and the agent will use the skill to validate the data set format which it gets based on examples and also scripts for validating and processing data sets. It will then select the appropriate hardware. It gets a table of hardware based on parameter sizes, but it also gets links to documentation that it can use for that.

Joffrey Thomas: It sets up a tracheio dashboard which is an open-source equivalent to weights and biases that it uses for tracking metrics during training. It has some CLI skills and track CLI skills also for retrieving certain representations of metrics. It can submit the hugging face job and it has instructions and documentations on that. It will report the job back and estimate the cost based on your budget. And as it's running, it will then check the process, the progress of the job and report that back to you. If the job fails, it can also help you debug that. And it has specific instructions and for debugging. We also benchmarked some code harnesses on this specific skill. We took Claude Code and OpenAI's codeex.

Joffrey Thomas: Claude code used the Opus 4.5 model and we tried codecs and without skills first using the five GPT 5.2 codecs without skills and then GPT 5.3 with skills based on the versions of the harness that they released and the most state-of-the-art model at that point in time. It's kind of an interesting example. It's not necessarily apples for apples, but what we can see in the dashed line is that as the token consumption goes up horizontally, the eval score goes up. But at first, the agent hasn't ingested the entire skill into context. It's just treating it like a typical file in its directory.

Joffrey Thomas: Whilst when skills added to codeex the solid green line you can see that it ingests the skill straight away and beats the baseline score of the model in the first go which is similar to how claude code with opus works and actually open ice codeex ends up slightly better like I said not exactly apples for apples but an interesting comparison of these two code harnesses on this specific problem. So now I'm just going to walk you through an example where I trained a model using codeex. this is all based on a blog post that we wrote and published last week. So if you want to a guide to go to that blog post. First I had to install the skill. This is different for every code agent. Unfortunately in the blog post I include examples for codeex claude and then a generic solution where you just copy the skill into the directory.

Joffrey Thomas: I would go there and check those out or go to the documentation of the coding agent that you're using. So here you can see in codeex that I have the skill activated and it shows that little icon. Every coding agent has an equivalent of that. I give it a prompt where I tell it to train the LFM model on a specific medical reasoning data set. I also give it some extra instructions just to make sure that it kind of runs the experiment in the way that I want. I tell it to return a new track link and give it a space so that it uses an existing space and doesn't create a new one for track. That's how we track metrics in a training run. I tell it to check on the jobs every minute. That's just a matter of preference. And I tell it to run five jobs on a learning rate sweep. So, okay, it uses the skill and says that it authenticates to my hugging face account.

### 01:20:00

Joffrey Thomas: It checks that it's got space. It's going to run five jobs. So, it sets them up on a learning rate sweep. It logs in. It makes sure there's an access token. It has to deal with some kind of error there, And then it returns back to me the space where we're going to track the job, the live dashboard URL of the same space. And it also shows that it has a series of runs with hugging face jobs. Let's have a look at those. Okay, we can see that that's a job that started off. Great. let's go and look at the track link.

Joffrey Thomas: Now I'm going to walk through the skill directory so that you can see the context that The main file in the skill is the md. This is the homepage to the skill. Basically it starts with metadata. Here we just have name, description and license. There are more options. Check out the documentation for that at agentskills.io. The most important field is the description. This is what the agent will get and use to determine whether it should use the skill or not. So, I'd recommend that it's dense and it has a lot of information about what exactly the skill can be. And it doesn't have to be the best pros as long as it lists the specific things that the skill can do.

Joffrey Thomas: As I said, it's a bit like a homepage that directs out to the other references and it should also be pretty dense and only have the core information. From there, the agent can use the references which should be more verbose and speak about the specific characteristics of one topic. So for example here we have the GGUF conversion but we also have hardware guide reliability principles tracheo guide and these are references that explain the best way to perform each task within the skill. The next directory within the skills directory is the scripts. You'll see that we have a set of Python scripts here. For example, this is the train sft.py

Joffrey Thomas: Which the agent will use as a template for its training scripts. Once again, these can be quite dense and they don't necessarily need to be the best code. For example, you'll see this doesn't use arg pass. It doesn't have any script arguments. That's fine because the agent is going to generate a script that it will pass to the interpreter. So, it doesn't need to have arguments and interface with the script like that. That said, Here we have the unsloth example that we use. It's quite common to have a pairing between references and scripts. So, for example, here we have a references that explains how to train with unsloth and we have a script that shows how to do it. The key is to make sure that they're not duplicated and that the script and the references complement each other.

Joffrey Thomas: Last thing I want to mention is how we benchmarked these tools. So we used a library called upskill that we wrote and open sourced. You can go and try it out now. Basically it's quite a simple library. It just evaluates a model on a given skill and we can use it to either improve a skill or generate a new skill from scratch using a model. And so we took certain tasks like writing CUDA kernels or training LLMs and we asked a model typically a performant model Opus 4.6

Joffrey Thomas: six to generate a skill for that task and also to generate validation criteria and evals for that task and then we gave the same skill to a smaller cheaper even open-source model and asked that model to do the same task and then we evaluated it based on those evals. What we found in many cases that not all models were improving and without skills. Some models in some use cases were actually getting worse. or they were staying the same and just using more tokens. So we wrote a blog post on this. You can also go and check that out on the hugging face blog. But if you take these examples, we can see GPT OSS with the skill for the diffusers task, it actually decreased in performance and it used more tokens. Some quick takeaways. So use skills to improve performance. That's where they're best.

### 01:25:00

Joffrey Thomas: If a model can already perform a task, a sufficient standard, Don't use skills for rules. In many cases, agents.md can be better. The hardest problems for a model are perfect for skills. So really pushing the model beyond what it's capable without context. And the easiest problems might not need them at all and maybe should just be skipped. If you want to check out all the skills that I've shown you here, go to the GitHub repo, Hugging Face Skills. If you want to try out the LLM training example, go to this blog post on Unsllo Jobs. If you go there, there's a free trial to try out hugging face jobs with unsloth scripts using the same skill above. Thanks,

Joffrey Thomas: I know it's quite dense, so I will go over very quickly toward the end. there's one last sponsor that I can show. It's about 11 Labs. So, they have creat I think you're all very familiar with 11 Labs and what they do. they are producing super good texttospech models and you will have all the links to get some credits to use along the hackathon as well as some description of the product, some project that they found super cool during the latest year. That's a super good hacker guide for you to get started.

Joffrey Thomas: Wishing you the best of can't wait to see what amazing project you'll do. maybe one little point u we have a Q\&A right now. maybe some specification. this is a hackathon. So basically everything that you do should be done during the weekend. there's no prior work would be super hard toward that role. this is not an occasion to showcase a project that you've done for work or something like that and continue or another project that you've created for other hackathon and that you're showcasing at multiple ones. We've seen that happen in the past.

Joffrey Thomas: This is definitely not the kind of behavior that we expecting. that being said, there's one rule that we are pretty flexible about. If you want to fine-tune a model, you are very free to start working on your data set. That's like a work that takes time that is complicated. so if you wish to fine-tune a model for any task feel free to create your data set before the weekend. This is allowed. no worries. So now if you have some questions I can answer them. I'm seeing can we get the link to labs? Yes. Everything will be sent along the link with the recording and so on.

Joffrey Thomas: you will have access to the platform. send to the hugging face I will send a link to join discord for those of you that did not do it yet. Maybe a final reminder if you plan on not joining. this is super restricted hackathon. We did not overbook too many people because in the past it was hard for us. But we had issue with over booking. so we did not overbook. So if you plan on not coming, cancel your registration mass of someone else. and basically question concerning doesn't do TTS. Will we get credit for TTS provider? Yes, that's 11 labs.

Joffrey Thomas: So you can use TTS with 11 LS and speech to text with virtual. I'm really looking forward to see another tip that I didn't give during the tip on how to do good. but basically maybe sharing a little bit about myself. I got into you saw because I won the hackathon. and my previous job was at hugging face and I was hugging face because I also won the hackathon. and every time I do by thinking is there a latest feature that can be transcribed into a project let's say you just release vual real time.

### 01:30:00

Joffrey Thomas: Is there something that virtual real time enabled being having real time text to speech transcription? There's most likely some new use cases that it allows. I have some in my mind, but this is not my place to give you ideas. You to have your own. but yeah, wishing to see what you build. in the end the hackathon is on Sunday 4 p.m. Do we have a demo on site after? Yes. Basically the judging that we are aiming to do and this is why we did not accept too many people is a judging round. some of you if you join our hackathon you are already familiar with it. it's basically you are going to pitch your ID right after you you will finish deadline.

Joffrey Thomas: you will be separated into multiple round one judges and you will pitch your ID for five minutes roughly it's not set yet but in front of round one judges and each of those round one judges will pick their best project out of the let's say seven they've seen and they will then get to pitch in front of a round two judges which will select the top three out of the project that they've seen in the round two. So, everyone will get to pitch in person in front of judges. practical question, will there food or breakfast on site? Yes, of course. like this there will be food.

Joffrey Thomas: I'm not saying I'm accommodation for sleep is a little bit harder but this is for food everything is included. our night stay will be possible across all venue. What does that en Not sleeping bad. Bring everything you can. it's good for naps but not for a good night's sleep. So if you live close by or have the ability to go back home this is and then always will be encouraged for your own health. I mean if you have the ability to are advanced enough in your project and you can get some hours of sleep.

Joffrey Thomas: It's always better possible photo toky possible don't know we are planning to have a catering that involves the worldwide kind of team so you'll have food from other places where the hackathon is taking place. t question teams are one to five but there's any advantage in working in a team when it comes to judging it's the amount of work that you can do it's the only thing I'm a huge fan of solo building and I'm not particularly the good person so this is why we actually allow solo builders usually in hackathons you have to be in a team but here since I've done a lot of solo building in the

Joffrey Thomas: just Is there going to have food option? Yes. don't worry about that. is it possible to have force team member that was not submitted to participate online? No, absolutely This is not possible to share team between location. can we build something on top of firework example an open source framework as long as we are very clear?

Joffrey Thomas: Yes our work that is very well known for instance in my previous hackathon win I can say that I built on top of an existing project which was AI town a TypeScript re recreation of NPCs interacting together and I turned it into werewolf game in Typescript having NPCs and things like that. So this kind of behavior is allowed but it was allowed because that was prior work for someone else and not from myself and so basically the learning curve was super high because I didn't know the reporter and it was before coding ever existed. the restriction using AI coding agents other than survive. No, you can use whatever you'd like.

### 01:35:00

Joffrey Thomas: There's no restriction. We are having a special price to encourage you to try Mr. Vibe, but there's no restriction on using anything else. Yeah, nobody builds it solo anymore. We have a companies. That's true. that being said, I always encourage you to read your code. it's easy to get lost and don't look at what change they make. and usually people start building super fast and during the evening of the Saturday and the Sunday morning everything crumbles. wishing not to see that happen. All right, if there's no more question, I think we can stop here. do

Joffrey Thomas: is otherwise we cannot judge your project. and it's the same for open source like the finetuning track to have to share the models on hugging face in public so that we can reproduce the same results. So obviously everything has to public either the GitHub the models and so on. good then. thank you very much everyone. I won't be seeing you in person as I'm in Asia, but there I will have colleagues on site for you to help you build. and wishing to see what you'll do. Best of luck.

Francisco Terpolilli: Thank you.

### Meeting ended after 01:39:44 👋

*This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.*

